PBC-2073: Integration guide (#2070)
spryker/spryker-docs: docs/pbc/all/tax-management/202307.0/vertex/install-vertex.md

---
title: Install Vertex
description: Find out how you can install Vertex in your Spryker shop
draft: true
last_updated: Aug 3, 2023

> template: howto-guide-template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
template: howto-guide-template
related:
  - title: Vertex
    link: docs/pbc/all/tax-management/page.version/vertex/vertex.html
```

        return $quoteTransfer;
    }
}
```

#### Product Class Code Expanders

For order items:

`Pyz/Zed/{YourDesiredModule}/Communication/Plugin/Order/OrderItemVertexProductClassCodeExpanderPlugin.php`

and for quote items:

`Pyz/Zed/{YourDesiredModule}/Communication/Plugin/Quote/CalculableObjectItemWithVertexProductClassCodeExpanderPlugin.php`

The contents of both plugins are similar:

```php
// ...
class ItemWithVertexClassCodeExpanderPlugin extends AbstractPlugin implements CalculableObjectTaxAppExpanderPluginInterface
{
    /**
     * @param \Generated\Shared\Transfer\CalculableObjectTransfer $calculableObjectTransfer
     *
     * @return \Generated\Shared\Transfer\CalculableObjectTransfer
     */
    public function expand(CalculableObjectTransfer $calculableObjectTransfer): CalculableObjectTransfer
    {
        foreach ($calculableObjectTransfer->getItems() as $itemTransfer) {
            $itemTransfer->getTaxMetadata()->setProduct(['productClass' => 'vertex-product-class-code']);
        }

        return $calculableObjectTransfer;
    }
}
```

{% info_block infoBox "Use same Product Class Code" %}

> The same Product Class Code extension must be used for all the product options and other order expenses because, in Vertex's perspective, all of them are separate items for tax calculation. To find them a proper place, you can refer to the transfers' definition, which was outlined above.

Reviewer: Use respective headings to refer to sections/documents - replace "which was outlined above" with "which is outlined in the [section title](#sectio title).

---
title: Install Vertex
description: Find out how you can install Vertex in your Spryker shop
draft: true
last_updated: Aug 3, 2023
template: howto-guide-template
---

## Integrate ACP connector module for tax calculation

To enable the Vertex integration, use the [spryker/tax-app](https://github.com/spryker/tax-app) ACP connector module.

To integrate the connector module for the Vertex app, follow these steps:

> ### 1. Configure shared configs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Configure shared configs
```

> To integrate the connector module for the Vertex app, follow the steps below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To integrate the connector module for the Vertex app, follow the steps below.
```

Add the following config to `config/Shared/config_default.php`:

```php
// ...

use Generated\Shared\Transfer\SubmitPaymentTaxInvoiceTransfer;

// ...

$config[MessageBrokerConstants::MESSAGE_TO_CHANNEL_MAP] = [
    // ...
    
    SubmitPaymentTaxInvoiceTransfer::class => 'tax-commands',
];

$config[MessageBrokerConstants::CHANNEL_TO_TRANSPORT_MAP] = [
    // ...
    
    'tax-commands' => 'http',
];

$config[MessageBrokerAwsConstants::CHANNEL_TO_SENDER_TRANSPORT_MAP] = [
    // ...
    
    'tax-commands' => 'http',
];
```

> ### 2. (Optional) If you plan to send invoices to Vertex through OMS, configure Payment OMS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### (Optional) If you plan to send invoices to Vertex through OMS, configure Payment OMS
```

> There is an example of how to configure payment `config/Zed/oms/{your_payment_oms}.xml`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following code sample shows how to configure payment `config/Zed/oms/{your_payment_oms}.xml`.
```

        
        <states>

            <!-- other states -->
            
            <state name="tax invoice submitted" reserved="true" display="oms.state.paid"/>

            <!-- other states -->
            
        </states>

        <transitions>

            <!-- other transitions -->

            <transition happy="true">
                <source>paid</source> <!-- Suggested that paid transition should be the source, but it's up to you -->
                <target>tax invoice submitted</target>
                <event>submit tax invoice</event>
            </transition>

            <!-- other transitions -->

            <transition happy="true">
                <source>tax invoice submitted</source>
                
                <!-- Here are the contents of the target transition -->
                
            </transition>

            <!-- other transitions -->
            
        </transitions>

        <events>

            <!-- other events -->

            <event name="submit tax invoice" onEnter="true" command="TaxApp/SubmitPaymentTaxInvoice"/>

            <!-- other events -->
            
        </events>
        
    </process>
    
</statemachine>
```

> ### 3. Configure Oms Dependency Provider

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Configure Oms Dependency Provider
```

Add the config to `src/Pyz/Zed/Oms/OmsDependencyProvider.php`:

```php
// ...
    
use Spryker\Zed\TaxApp\Communication\Plugin\Oms\Command\SendPaymentTaxInvoicePlugin;

// ...

    /**
     * @param \Spryker\Zed\Kernel\Container $container
     *
     * @return \Spryker\Zed\Kernel\Container
     */
    protected function extendCommandPlugins(Container $container): Container
    {
         $container->extend(self::COMMAND_PLUGINS, function (CommandCollectionInterface $commandCollection) {
             
             // ...
             
             $commandCollection->add(new SendPaymentTaxInvoicePlugin(), 'TaxApp/SubmitPaymentTaxInvoice');

             // ...
            
             return $commandCollection;
        });
        
        return $container;
    }

```

> ### 4. Configure Calculation Dependency Provider

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Configure Calculation Dependency Provider
```

> Add the following to `src/Pyz/Zed/Calculation/CalculationDependencyProvider.php`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add the following to `src/Pyz/Zed/Calculation/CalculationDependencyProvider.php`:
```

```php
// ...

use Spryker\Zed\TaxApp\Communication\Plugin\Calculation\TaxAppCalculationPlugin;

// ...

    /**
     * @param \Spryker\Zed\Kernel\Container $container
     *
     * @return array<\Spryker\Zed\CalculationExtension\Dependency\Plugin\CalculationPluginInterface>
     */
    protected function getQuoteCalculatorPluginStack(Container $container): array
    {
        /** @var array<\Spryker\Zed\Calculation\Dependency\Plugin\CalculationPluginInterface> $pluginStack */
        $pluginStack = [
            // ...
        
            // Please put this plugin after all other tax calculation plugins.
        
            new TaxAppCalculationPlugin(),
        
            // ...
        ];
        
        return $pluginStack;
    }

// ...
```

## Integrate the Vertex app

Follow the steps below to install the integrate the Vertex app.

> ### 1. Configure Vertex Specific Metadata Transfers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Configure Vertex Specific Metadata Transfers
```

    <transfer name="Expense">
        <property name="taxMetadata" type="ItemTaxMetadata" strict="true"/>
    </transfer>

    <!-- Item is extended with ItemTaxMetadata -->
    <transfer name="Item">
        <property name="taxMetadata" type="ItemTaxMetadata" strict="true"/>
    </transfer>

    <!-- Product Option is extended with ItemTaxMetadata -->
    <transfer name="ProductOption">
        <property name="taxMetadata" type="ItemTaxMetadata" strict="true"/>
    </transfer>

    <!-- Sales Tax Metadata. It contains Vertex tax metadata which is related to Order or Quote in general. -->
    <transfer name="SaleTaxMetadata" strict="true">
        <property name="seller" type="array" associative="true" singular="_"/>
        <property name="customer" type="array" associative="true" singular="_"/>
    </transfer>

    <!-- Items Tax Metadata. It contains Vertex tax metadata which is related to Item.-->
    <transfer name="ItemTaxMetadata" strict="true">
        <property name="product" type="array" associative="true" singular="_"/>
        <property name="flexibleFields" type="array" associative="true" singular="_"/>
    </transfer>

</transfers>

```

> `SaleTaxMetadata` and `ItemTaxMetadata` are designed to be equal to the Vertex Tax Calculation API request body. So you are free to extend them as you need according to Vertex API structure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`SaleTaxMetadata` and `ItemTaxMetadata` are designed to be equal to the Vertex Tax Calculation API request body. You are free to extend them as you need according to the Vertex API structure.
```

> `SaleTaxMetadata` is equal to Invoicing/Quotation request payload excluding LineItems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`SaleTaxMetadata` is equal to the Invoicing/Quotation request payload, excluding LineItems.
```

`ItemTaxMetadata` is equal to Line Item API Payload.

> ### 2. Implement Vertex Specific Metadata Extender Plugins

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Implement Vertex Specific Metadata Extender Plugins
```

There are several types of expander plugins you have to introduce.

#### Customer Class Code expander plugins

> You can introduce as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following code sample shows how to introduce the following expander plugin:
```

`Pyz/Zed/{YourDesiredModule}/Communication/Plugin/Order/OrderCustomerWithVertexCodeExpanderPlugin.php`

> Example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```php
<?php

namespace Pyz\Zed\{YourDesiredModule}\Communication\Plugin\Order;

use Generated\Shared\Transfer\OrderTransfer;
use Spryker\Zed\Kernel\Communication\AbstractPlugin;
use Spryker\Zed\TaxAppExtension\Dependency\Plugin\OrderTaxAppExpanderPluginInterface;

class OrderCustomerWithVertexCodeExpanderPlugin extends AbstractPlugin implements OrderTaxAppExpanderPluginInterface
{
    /**
     * @param \Generated\Shared\Transfer\OrderTransfer $orderTransfer
     *
     * @return \Generated\Shared\Transfer\OrderTransfer
     */
    public function expand(OrderTransfer $orderTransfer): OrderTransfer
    {
        $orderTransfer->getTaxMetadata()->setCustomer(['customerCode' => 'vertex-customer-code']);

        return $orderTransfer;
    }
}
```

> For the calculation process:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following code sample shows how to introduce the following expander plugin:
```

`Pyz/Zed/{YourDesiredModule}/Communication/Plugin/Quote/CalculableObjectCustomerWithVertexCodeExpanderPlugin.php`

> Example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```php
<?php

namespace Spryker\Zed\{YourDesiredModule}\Communication\Plugin\Quote;

use Generated\Shared\Transfer\CalculableObjectTransfer;
use Spryker\Zed\Kernel\Communication\AbstractPlugin;
use Spryker\Zed\TaxAppExtension\Dependency\Plugin\CalculableObjectTaxAppExpanderPluginInterface;

class CalculableObjectCustomerWithVertexCodeExpanderPlugin extends AbstractPlugin implements CalculableObjectTaxAppExpanderPluginInterface
{
    /**
     * @param \Generated\Shared\Transfer\CalculableObjectTransfer $quoteTransfer
     *
     * @return \Generated\Shared\Transfer\CalculableObjectTransfer
     */
    public function expand(CalculableObjectTransfer $quoteTransfer): CalculableObjectTransfer
    {
        $quoteTransfer->getTaxMetadata()->setCustomer(['customerCode' => 'vertex-customer-code']);

        return $quoteTransfer;
    }
}
```

#### Product Class Code Expanders

For order items:

`Pyz/Zed/{YourDesiredModule}/Communication/Plugin/Order/OrderItemVertexProductClassCodeExpanderPlugin.php`

> and for quote items

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and for quote items:
```

`Pyz/Zed/{YourDesiredModule}/Communication/Plugin/Quote/CalculableObjectItemWithVertexProductClassCodeExpanderPlugin.php`

> Contents of both plugins are similar:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The contents of both plugins are similar:
```

```php
// ...
class ItemWithVertexClassCodeExpanderPlugin extends AbstractPlugin implements CalculableObjectTaxAppExpanderPluginInterface
{
    /**
     * @param \Generated\Shared\Transfer\CalculableObjectTransfer $calculableObjectTransfer
     *
     * @return \Generated\Shared\Transfer\CalculableObjectTransfer
     */
    public function expand(CalculableObjectTransfer $calculableObjectTransfer): CalculableObjectTransfer
    {
        foreach ($calculableObjectTransfer->getItems() as $itemTransfer) {
            $itemTransfer->getTaxMetadata()->setProduct(['productClass' => 'vertex-product-class-code']);
        }

        return $calculableObjectTransfer;
    }
}
```

{% info_block infoBox "Note" %}

> The same Product Class Code extension must be done for all the product options and other order expenses because, in Vertex's perspective, all of them are separate items for tax calculation. To find them a proper place, you can refer to the transfers' definition, which was described above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The same Product Class Code extension must be used for all the product options and other order expenses because, in Vertex's perspective, all of them are separate items for tax calculation. To find them a proper place, you can refer to the transfers' definition, which was outlined above.
```

{% endinfo_block %}

#### Flexible fields extension

> Example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following code sample shows how to introduce the flexible fields extension:```

```php

class ItemWithFlexibleFieldsExpanderPlugin extends AbstractPlugin implements CalculableObjectTaxAppExpanderPluginInterface
{
    // ...
    
    /**
     * @param \CalculableObjectTransfer $calculableObjectTransfer
     * 
     * @return \CalculableObjectTransfer
     */
    public function expand(CalculableObjectTransfer $calculableObjectTransfer): CalculableObjectTransfer
    {
        foreach ($calculableObjectTransfer->getItems() as $itemTransfer) {
            $itemTransfer
                ->getTaxMetadata()
                ->setFlexibleFields(
                    [
                        'flexibleCodeFields' => [
                            [
                                'fieldId' => 1,
                                'value' => 'vertex-flexible-code-value',
                            ],
                        ],
                    ],
                );
        }

        return $calculableObjectTransfer;
    }
}
```

> ### 3. Configure Tax App Dependency Provider

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Configure Tax App Dependency Provider
```
